Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about array of structures.
So as we declare an array of integers, an array
of characters
We can also declare an array of structures
Here we have a structure student with members name age
and roll
Now if we need an array of three structures we
can declare it like this
Keyword struct followed by structure_name followed by structure
variable and size in square brackets
Now to access name of structure1 use s[0].name
to access Name of structure2 use s[1].name
and so on
And we can initialise the values like this Just write
the values in braces separated by commas and these set
of values again separated using commas within braces and put a semicolon
finally. so the values are stored in
like this Now let us print the values using a
for loop. we print s[i].name s[i].age
and s[i].roll for i =0,1 and 2
So we get these values printed now
let us see a C program to get input from the
user and print it. So we first declare the structure student
And then we declared the array of structures so
s[0], s[1] and s[2] are created and
an integer variable i is also declared
Now we asked the user to enter the student
details
And using a for loop, it is scanned to these
structures
In first iteration the values entered which are abc, 20,
78456 are scanned to S[0]
In the second iteration the values entered which are cde
23 78458 are scanned to s[1]
Similarly the next set of values are scanned to s[2]
Now we print these values using a for loop just
as we did before
In first iteration values in S[0] are printed
in the second iteration values in S[1] and in
third iteration values in s[2] are printed and
finally main returns zero
So that's all and thank you for watching this video